---
weight: 3
bookFlatSection: true
title: "Progress"
date: "2023-01-28"
lastmod: "2023-01-28"
---

# Tracking Progress Towards Becoming the Best Search Engine in the World

We are developing a metric to describe how far along we are towards
becoming the best search engine in the world. Whilst this will never
be perfect, it is useful as a motivating factor, since progress by
this metric can always be achieved by taking concrete steps. It also
allows us to explain to people the enormity of the task we are
undertaking, how far we have come, and how far we still have to go.

TLDR; we are 1.2154% complete.

## Philosophy and methodology

We generally prefer goals that are directly attainable, for example,
"writing a blog post that meets our criteria" instead of "getting
1,000 views on a blog post" since the former is under our control
whereas the latter depends on a host of other conditions outside our
control. We will also have goals that are outside of our direct
control where it makes sense.

The numbers we set as our goals are arbitrary, but should move us in
the right direction. The "correct" number is the number we expect to
reach once we achieve our goal of being the best search engine in the
world. Of course, we don't know what that is, but a guess is fine for
now. We will sometimes use a benchmark by referring to metrics that
are available for other organisations that have reached a level that
is in some way comparable to what we are trying to achieve.

Progress is tracked by "points" assigned by making progress towards a
goal. Once points are assigned, they cannot be taken away, however new
goals can be added. This means that the percentage complete value can
decrease with time as new values are added, but the score does not
decrease.

## Version 0.1 (January 2023)

The criteria for each of these to be satisfactory and count towards
the goal is still to be documented. For now use common sense, e.g. a
ten word blog post will not count.

### Technology

Git commits:
 - **Goal:** 100,000 across all repos
 - **Points per commit:** 1
 - **Max total points:** 100,000
 - **Benchmarks:** MediaWiki - 114,000 commits, Elasticsearch - 67,000 commits
 - **Current:** 225 (225 points)

Number of pages crawled per day:
 - **Goal:** 3 billion
 - **Points per million pages:** 50
 - **Max total points:** 150,000
 - **Benchmark:** Google
   (apparently)[https://www.kevin-indig.com/googles-index-is-smaller-than-we-think-and-might-not-grow-at-all/]
   indexed around 100 billion pages at the time of writing, and we
   need to refresh our index at least once a month.
 - **Current:** 1 million (50 points)

NDCG score in our offline evaluation:
 - **Goal:** 80%
 - **Points per percentage point:** 1,000
 - **Max total points:** 80,000
 - **Benchmark:** our dataset is derived from Bing queries and results
 - **Current:** 10% (10,000 points)

### Community

Blog posts:
 - **Goal:** 250
 - **Points per post:** 100
 - **Max total points:** 25,000
 - **Benchmarks:** None, this is based on roughly one post a week for five years
 - **Current:** 2 (200 points)

Videos:
 - **Goal:** 1000
 - **Points per video:** 100
 - **Max total points:** 100,000
 - **Benchmarks:** Analysis by TubeBuddy
   ([source](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OaPEiSSmn-A)), average
   number of videos on channels with 100,000 to 1,000,000 subscribers
 - **Current:** 6 (600 points)

Number of volunteers:
 - **Goal:** 100,000 active volunteers each month
 - **Points per volunteer:** 1
 - **Max total points:** 100,000
 - **Benchmarks:** (Number of Wikipedia
   editors)[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Wikipedians#Number_of_editors]:
   126,000 active per month
 - **Current:** 26 (based off Firefox extension stats) (26 points)

### Organisation

Number of employees in the parent organisation:
 - **Goal:** 20
 - **Points per employee:** 5,000
 - **Max total points:** 100,000
 - **Benchmarks:** None
 - **Current:** None
 
Incorporation goals:
 - Incorporate the main organisation in the UK as a non-profit (20,000 points)
 - Get registered charity status in the UK (20,000 points)
 - Incorporate a non-profit in the US (20,000 points)
 - **Max total points:** 60,000
 - **Current:** None

Number of officially affiliated organisations:
 - **Goal:** 100
 - **Points per organisation: 1,000**
 - **Max total points:** 100,000
 - **Benchmarks:** [World Organisation of the Scout
   Movement](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_World_Organization_of_the_Scout_Movement_members),
   175 members
 - **Current:** None

Number of commits to The Book of Mwmbl:
 - **Goal:** 10,000
 - **Points per commit:** 10
 - **Max total points:** 100,000
 - **Current:** 20 (200 points)

## Grand totals

 - **Current points TOTAL**: 11,121
 - **Maximum points TOTAL**: 915,000
 - **Percentage complete**: 1.2154%
